All right.
So in this lesson will introduce the ref function which ships with Vue 3.0.
So I'd like to take a step back here and talk about what our goal is.
Our goal is to emulate the exact kind of behavior that we saw in Google sheets within a JavaScript file.
Now, we're not going to necessarily be able to do it right now with plain JavaScript, but we're going
to be able to import some helper view functions that are going to allow us to have that level of reactivity.
And that's going to demonstrate to us that we can use these view functions outside the confines of a
specific component.
We have seen similar reactivity ideas before throughout the course, such as computed properties that
re-evaluated when data changes.
Right.
But that is an example of a property that is connected to a view configuration object tied to a component.
Previously, there was no way to take that logic, that reactivity, and take it out of the component.
So it can be used independently.
But now, with the available helper functions in Vue 3.0 and the composition API, we can utilize that
reactivity without even needing a component attached, which is why we're going to be able to emulate
these concepts in a plain JavaScript file.
All right, that is our ultimate end goal.
So to give it a more precise definition.
What I want to happen here is whenever the value of A or B changes, I want to I want C to automatically
update without us having to explicitly tell it to.
Right.
I want to connect, create a connection between C and and B so that C reacts to any changes between
A and B and recalculate the sum of those two numbers.
All right.
So with that, let's import a function that is available in Vue 3.0 and it is called Ref RDF.
Now, because we are working with a plain JavaScript file here and depending on the version of Node
you have, we may not necessarily have the import syntax available here.
So we're going to use the more older way to import exports from another file, and that is going to
be the require syntax.
So right here I'm going to say const and I'm going to import a named export called Ref.
And on the right side, I'm going to use the word require.
And here as a string, I'm going to provide the library from which I'm importing this from.
And that is going to be viewed.
All right.
This is actually the syntax behind the scenes that something like this would evaluate to in a view component
file.
But again, we don't have Webpack in the vehicle.
I'm running through this code.
So we do not have the ability to use something like line number three behind the scenes.
This is what it's doing anyway.
So we're going to use this alternate syntax.
So now we have this raft function available within our playground file.
And what I'd like to do is pass in our values of one into two invocations of the ref function.
So right here I'm going to invoke the ref function and it accepts a single value.
Our single argument and I'm going to pass in a value of one.
And right here I'm going to provide a value of two.
All right, so what does this do?
Let me separate the content so we can look at it independently.
What this does is it creates a reactive object.
And when I use the words reactive object, I'm in an object that's able to communicate about its own
changes as well as track other objects.
Reactive changes.
Right.
So right now, it's kind of hard to understand how these concepts come together.
But the simplest way is RAF is going to give us back a plane JavaScript object, and that object knows
how to track changes to its own state.
So.
Just like any JavaScript object, it's going to have properties, it's going to have methods, and it's
going to have ways to interact with that object.
So one thing that's going to be available on the object that the ref function returns to us is going
to be a property called value, and that value is going to be the original value that we passed in.
So for example, for our a variable online, number one, that object is going to have a property called
value that is going to be equal to one.
Of course, it's going to have a whole bunch of other methods and things like that that deal with reactivity.
But it's also going to have fundamentally a property called value, which is going to be one.
An important thing to note here is that this one is the original non-reactive value.
So this is just the literal number one.
Nothing magic or special about it.
No additional functionality, just the number one.
This entire reactive object is going to have that special functionality, but the value property is
going to expose the original non-reactive value that we passed in.
So what I can do right here, let me go ahead and -- delete this code below is console.log a dot
value and console.log be the value.
All right, I'm going to run this file node source playground J.S. And we're going to see one in two,
which is exactly what we expect.
Those are the values we passed in, right?
So we basically passed in data and then we verify that we can access that data within that reactive
object.
Right?
So kind of simple, kind of stupid.
But you know, these are still ideas that we have to remember and memorize about view.
Okay.
So now going back to our original goal of trying to have a variable called C that was keeping track
of the changes to N.B., you might think since we have a reactive object represented in A and B, that
we can do something like this.
I could say, Well, a dot value will give me that original value, plus B that value will give me whatever
be a storing is c going to update whenever A or B changes.
Now, the answer here is actually going to be no.
So let me console.log the value of C right now.
And later on the file, we're going to see that sea is indeed going to store the value of three, which
makes sense because a value is going to give us one.
B, that value is going to give us two.
But nothing has changed compared to the code that we ran in the previous lesson, because we are not
using the reactive object, we are referencing its value property and getting the original non-reactive
number values.
So this is just a value adding to one plus one, which is equal to three, which is what C is storing.
C is during the plane.
Number three, it still has no fundamental connection to A and B.
All right.
So, for example, if I want to change the value of A or rather the value that is being stored inside
that reactive object, we know that that value is available on the value property.
So I can similarly overwrite it just like any other object property in JavaScript, I can reference
a that value and set it to something different like ten and if I console.log, see after the fact we're
going to see that C is still equal to three.
Forgive my poetry, right?
We're still going to have the idea of three because we actually have not established a link between
C and the A and B objects, the reactive objects themselves that are internally storing these primitive
values.
And if this is super confusing, I apologize.
But it's one of those things that's going to click in due time as we play around with it.
Moore The key takeaway right now is that RAF returns a JavaScript object that is able to deal with reactivity,
and it hides the value that we passed in under its value property.
And that value property gives us the original value.
NON-REACTIVE So if we simply access it and reuse it elsewhere, that doesn't mean that we're going to
add reactivity to see that is our key takeaway from this lesson.
So similarly, this might be another idea that we get if we're feeling creative, we might say, Well,
can I make a ref function call by passing in the values of A value and B the value.
So again, we're trying to communicate somehow with some syntax to view that we want to keep track of
A's value and B's value, right?
And whenever change is, please update C, right?
And we're still learning the right syntax.
But I want to talk about why some of these syntactic options are not going to work, because it requires
us to think more critically about what JavaScript is doing behind the scenes.
So what's going to happen in this scenario is we're going to evaluate this two one, we're going to
do this to two.
So this is going to be equivalent to calling RAF with a plane number of three.
So that is again going to return a reactive object so we can no longer log out C by itself because C
by itself is actually going to be that reactive object here.
You can see right here is that reactive object that the view function raff has set up for us.
And on that object we are going to have our value property, which is going to give us the original
value that we passed into RAF, which is going to be three, right.
The sum of these two values.
So similarly, if I go to my object and change its value property to let's say ten and console.log,
see that value once again, see that value is going to remain unchanged.
Okay.
So we have not made much progress here, but we are we are making small steps towards the solution,
which we will take a look at in the very next lesson.